Plinko is a pretty good example of a binomial process wherein the vertical axis might represent time while the horizontal axis might represent some change in a random variable. The walls on the left and right sides, however, affect the binomial distribution which leads to rather interesting results after running monte carlo simulations of the game. If you are unfimiliar, a player drops a chip at 1 of the 11 initial positions, labeled with coordinates at the top, and observes where the chip will land, to wit in 1 of 5 pockets labeled 1 through 5 at the bottom. The coordinates such as (2,0) and (2,5) represent the vertices of the walls while the rest represent pegs that cause the chip to bounce either to the left or right. In my simulation, I assumed there was an equal probability of a chip bouncing to the left as there was the chip bouncing to the right at each peg and that there was a probability of unity that a chip would bounce to the right if landing on a left wall and to the left if landing on a right wall. The process is a martingale and so the best prediction of the chip's horizontal position at a future time (vertical position) is the chip's horizontal position during the time the prediction was made. This can be seen by making a prediction of the chip's position in two units of time starting at some peg point. In two temporal units, the chip can bounce to the right twice, right once then left once, left once then right once, or to the left twice (assuming a wall does not interfere, in which case my point is only further strengthened). Since each path has the same probability of occuring, i.e. 1/4, the prediction that it lands at the same horizontal position as where the prediction was made is the best prediction with a probability of 1/2. Also, when considering the superposition of all the paths, the expectation value of the future position is equal to the original position by the argument from symmetry. As a result, the chip will typically land in the pocket near, if not at, the same horizontal position as the initial chip dropping position. As mentioned, this binomial distribution is altered by the left and right walls in that chips cannot land to the left of pocket 1 nor to the right of pocket 5. Therefore, if given the task of predicting where the chip will land as well as the choice of initial dropping position, the safest bet is to choose either pocket 1 or pocket 5 and dropping the chip at positions (2,0) or (2,5). If allowed only a choice of initial position given a target pocket, the best bet is to simply place the chip directly over the pocket, which some may consider so obvious to the point of counter-intuitive.
